Examples tx 0, 1 and 2 (#7006)
ethereum/web3.js: docs/docs/guides/wallet/transactions.md

This guide provides insights into sending transactions using web3.js, covering various scenarios from utilizing a local wallet to sending raw transactions.

## Transaction Type 0 (Legacy)

A Legacy Transaction refers to a transaction that was created using an older version of Ethereum's transaction format, also known as "transaction type 0". This transaction format was used before the EIP-1559 upgrade, which was implemented in August 2021.

```ts
import { Web3 } from"web3";

const web3 = new Web3("https://rpc2.sepolia.org");

async function txLegacy() {
  const wallet = web3.eth.wallet.add("YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY"); //make sure you have funds

  const sender = wallet[0].address;
  const recipient = "0x807BFe4940016B5a7FdA19482042917B02e68359";
  const value = 1; //wei
  const nonce = await web3.eth.getTransactionCount(sender);
  const gas = 21000;
  const gasPrice = await web3.eth.getGasPrice();

  const tx = {
    from: sender,
    to: recipient,
    value,
    nonce,
    gas,
    gasPrice,

>   };

Reviewer: We have defaultTransactionType: '0x2'

So if you want to sent legacy tx. set type: 0

  const wallet = web3.eth.wallet.add("YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY"); //make sure you have funds

  const sender = wallet[0].address;
  const recipient = "0x807BFe4940016B5a7FdA19482042917B02e68359";
  const value = 1; //wei
  const nonce = await web3.eth.getTransactionCount(sender);
  const gas = 21000;
  const gasPrice = await web3.eth.getGasPrice();

  const tx = {
    from: sender,
    to: recipient,
    value,
    nonce,
    gas,
    gasPrice,
    // highlight-next-line
    type: 0,
  };

  const txReceipt = await web3.eth.sendTransaction(tx);
  console.log("Tx hash", txReceipt.transactionHash);
}

txLegacy();
```

### ERC20 Interaction

```ts
import { Web3 } from "web3";

const web3 = new Web3("https://rpc2.sepolia.org");

async function transfer() {
  //initialize wallet
  const wallet = web3.eth.wallet.add("PRIVATE_KEY");

  //initialize contract
  const myERC20 = new web3.eth.Contract(ABI, ADDRESS);

  //send transfer and specify the type
  const txReceipt = await myERC20.methods.transfer(TO, VALUE).send({
    from: wallet[0].address,
    // highlight-next-line
    type: 0,
  });

  console.log(txReceipt.transactionHash);
}

transfer();
```

## Transaction Type 1 (EIP-2930)

> This EIP was introduced in April 2021, it introduces a feature called 'Transaction Type and Access List.' This improvement allows saving gas on cross-contract calls by declaring in advance which contract and storage slots will be accessed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP was introduced in April 2021, it introduces a feature called 'Access List.' This improvement allows saving gas on cross-contract calls by declaring in advance which contract and storage slots will be accessed.
```

transaction type envelop was introduced in https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718

### Raw Transaction

```ts
import { Web3 } from"web3";

const web3 = new Web3("https://rpc2.sepolia.org");

async function txEIP2930() {
  const wallet = web3.eth.wallet.add("YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY");

  const sender = wallet[0].address;
  const contractAddress1 = "0x...";
  const contractAddress2 = "0x..."
  const nonce = await web3.eth.getTransactionCount(sender);
  const gas = 500000; //could be higher
  const gasPrice = await web3.eth.getGasPrice();

  const tx = {
    from: sender,
    to: contractAddress1, //the contract we are calling
    data: "0x...",
    gas,
    gasPrice,
    // highlight-next-line
    type: 1,
    accessList: [
      {
        address: contractAddress2, //contract1 is calling contract2
        storageKeys: [
          "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
          "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001",
        ],
      },

>     ],

Reviewer 2: I think also mention here that users can use https://docs.web3js.org/libdocs/Web3Eth#createaccesslist for getting accesslist of Tx

Author: amazing, i didn't know that, hanks for sharing @jdevcs

Author: Please verify i added it correctly in the last commit @jdevcs
